=== CHUNKS (A1 INSTRUCTIONS) ===

--- chunk_0 | Part 1: General Information ---
2026-02-02, 7:27 PMLTB | Form A1 Instructions
Page 2 of 5https://tribunalsontario.ca/documents/ltb/Landlord%20Applications%20&%20Instructions/A1 _Instructions.html
Applicant Information
Shade the appropriate circle to indicate whether you are a landlord or a tenant.
If you are a landlord:
Fill in your name and address. If the landlord is a company, ﬁll in the name of the company under "Company
Name". Include both daytime and evening telephone numbers and a fax number and e-mail address, if you have
them.
If there is more than one landlord, ﬁll in information about one of the landlords in this section. Provide the names,
addresses and telephone numbers of the additional landlords on the Schedule of Parties Form which is available
from the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.
If you are a tenant:
Fill in your name. Fill in your address if it is different from the address of the rental unit covered by this
application. Include both daytime and evening telephone numbers and a fax number and e-mail address, if you
have them.
If two or more tenants live in the rental unit, provide the names, addresses and telephone numbers of any
additional tenants on the Schedule of Parties Form which is available from the LTB website at
tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.
Address of the Rental Unit, Building or Residential Complex Covered by this
Application
Fill in the complete address of the rental unit, building or residential complex, including the unit number (or
apartment or suite number) and the postal code.
If the street name includes a direction that will not ﬁt in the ﬁve spaces provided (such as Northeast) use the
following abbreviations: NE for Northeast, NW for Northwest, SE for Southeast, SW for Southwest.
Example:
If the address is: #208 at 1120 Mayﬁeld Road North, London, N6J 2M1, this is how you should complete Part 1 of
the application:
Other Parties to the Application
Shade the appropriate circle to indicate whether the other parties to the application are landlord(s) or tenant(s).
If you are the tenant:
The landlord is always an "other party".
Fill in the landlord's name and address. If the landlord is a company, ﬁll in the name of the company under
"Company Name". Include both daytime and evening telephone numbers and a fax number and e-mail address,
2026-02-02, 7:27 PMLTB | Form A1 Instructions
Page 3 of 5https://tribunalsontario.ca/documents/ltb/Landlord%20Applications%20&%20Instructions/A1 _Instructions.html
if you have them.
If you are the landlord:
The tenant is always an "other party".
Fill in the tenant's name and address. Include both daytime and evening telephone numbers and a fax number
and e-mail address, if you have them.
If there is more than one other party, provide the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the additional
other parties on the Schedule of Parties form which is available from the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.
Related Applications
If there are any other applications that relate to this rental unit, and those applications have not been resolved,
list the ﬁle numbers in the space provided.

--- chunk_1 | Part 2: Reason for Your Application ---
The Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (RTA) applies to most residential rental properties. However, certain types
of accommodation are generally not covered under the RTA. This includes hotels, correctional institutions,
emergency shelters, accommodation where the occupancy is conditional upon employment and accommodation
where the occupant is required to share a kitchen or bathroom facility with the owner or his/her immediate family.
Other types of accommodation are only partially covered by the RTA. This includes non-proﬁt and social housing
units.
Also, there are certain provisions of the RTA that only apply to care homes, such as rules for increasing the
charges for care services and meals. Other provisions only apply to mobile homes and land lease communities
(for example, rules about selling mobile or land lease homes).
You can apply to have the LTB determine whether the RTA or any provision of it applies to one, some or all rental
units in the complex. It is up to the member to determine whether or not the RTA applies in any situation.
In the space provided, describe the accommodation (for example, the complex is a hotel, or the rental unit is
provided for emergency shelter) and whether or not you think the RTA or any provision of it applies to you.
Explain why you believe this.
Fill in the total number of rental units in the complex. Then, ﬁll in how many rental units are covered by your
application. If the application covers more than one but not all of the rental units in the complex, list the additional
rental units that are covered by the application on a separate sheet and ﬁle it with the application.

--- chunk_2 | Part 3: Signature ---
If you are the landlord, shade the circle marked "Landlord". Then, sign the application form and ﬁll in the date.
If you are the tenant, shade the circle marked "Tenant". Then, sign the application form and ﬁll in the date.
If you are the representative, shade the circle marked "Representative". Then, sign the application form and ﬁll in
the date.
Information about the Representative
2026-02-02, 7:27 PMLTB | Form A1 Instructions
Page 4 of 5https://tribunalsontario.ca/documents/ltb/Landlord%20Applications%20&%20Instructions/A1 _Instructions.html
Complete this section only if you are a representative or agent. Fill in your name, address and contact
information in the spaces provided.
Request For Accommodation or French-Language Services
The LTB wants to ensure that everyone who uses its services can ask for and receive accommodation and/or
French Language services in order to be able to participate in its proceedings on an equal basis.
Shade the appropriate box or boxes on the form to indicate whether you need accommodation under the Ontario
Human Rights Code, French-language services or both. The LTB will not include a copy of this form when we
give the other parties a copy of the application form. However, the information will be included in your application
ﬁle. The ﬁle may be viewed by other parties to the application.
If you require accommodation under the Human Rights Code, explain what services you need in the space
provided.
Payment Information Form
Complete this form to provide the LTB with the information required to process your application. Your application
will not be accepted if you do not pay the application fee at the time you ﬁle the application. If you owe money to
the LTB as a result of failing to pay a fee or any ﬁne or costs set out in an order, your application may be refused
or discontinued.
You may request a fee waiver if you meet the ﬁnancial eligibility requirements set out by the LTB. You will need to
complete the Fee Waiver Form which is available from the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. For more
information about fee waivers and the eligibility criteria, go to the fee waiver rules and practice direction on the
Rules of Practice page of the LTB website.
Payment Method
Shade the appropriate box to show whether you are paying by online payment, money order, certiﬁed cheque,
Visa or MasterCard. You can pay online using a debit or credit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and
application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.
If you are ﬁling my mail or courier, you can pay by credit card by completing the Credit Card Payment Form and
submitting it with your application. You cannot pay by cash or with debit card if you are ﬁling your application by
mail or courier.
Return to Top

--- chunk_3 | Section D: How to ﬁle your application ---
2026-02-02, 7:27 PMLTB | Form A1 Instructions
Page 5 of 5https://tribunalsontario.ca/documents/ltb/Landlord%20Applications%20&%20Instructions/A1 _Instructions.html
You can ﬁle your application in one of the following ways:
File by Email, Pay Online
You can pay online using a debit or credit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to
LTBpayments@ontario.ca.
By Mail or courier
Mail or courier your A1 application to the nearest LTB ofﬁce.
To ﬁnd a list of LTB ofﬁce locations visit the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. You can also call the
LTB at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll-free).
If you mail or courier your application, you can pay the application fee by certiﬁed cheque, money order,
Visa or MasterCard. Certiﬁed cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of
Finance. If you are ﬁling by mail or courier and paying by Visa or Mastercard, you must complete the
Credit Card Payment Form and submit it with your application.
By Fax
Effective December 31, 2021, the LTB has decommissioned its fax machines assigned to regional
ofﬁces. This means that except for a limited number of circumstances, the LTB no longer accepts
documents, including applications, by fax.
If you must use fax to ﬁle applications or submit documents urgently because you don't have access to
a computer and/or internet or can't visit a local Service Ontario ofﬁce, applicants can fax applications
and documents that don't have a fee associated, or where they are eligible for a fee waiver, to 1-833-
610-2242 or (416) 326-6455.
Due to Payment Card Industry (PCI) security compliance requirements, the LTB cannot accept credit
card payment via fax. Applications with credit card information will be automatically deleted and not
processed. Please contact the LTB at 1-888-332-3234 for information on how to submit payment
information.
Return to Top
